 people in connection with satyagraha, we have been asking them to sign it and to be faithful to the spirit of satyagraha while it is going on. The people may, if they choose, dishonour the Pledge, but the satyagrahi will not, at that time, declare his bankruptcy. His resources are inexhaustible. His effort ceases only with his death. When, however, the people are in no mood to follow this line, we must think of other methods. I do not like processions. They do not at all make me happy. But, apart from whether I like processions or not, the sort of procession you had today bespoke the peoples feelings, their unthinking love as also their support for satyagraha. If the people so often give evidence that they are on the side of satyagraha, one is entitled to hope that, while it is going on, they will not indulge in violence. If they cannot refrain from doing so, they should leave the satyagrahis and me alone. Even then, satyagraha will not stop. When the people thus support satyagraha [in the right manner] or leave it to follow its own course, there will be satyagraha of an altogether different kind. I want to tell the peopleand I am confident about thisthat, if they can show the spirit I want them to, the Government will see clearly enough that they do not require a Rowlatt Act even for an hour. Let us, for a while, consider the origin of this Act. It lies in distrust of the people and, though reasons have occasionally been given for this distrust, I have pointed out again and again that they are not so strong as to leave the Government with no choice but to enact dangerous legislation like the Rowlatt Act. I have gone even further and said that, no matter how strong the reasons, a Government which enacts such dangerous legislation will be none too secure. If, in the conditions we find prevailing today, the people can show that they have no anger or animosity, what effect this will have on the Government is as simple to understand as the rule of three. Thus, the moment we understand this truth about satyagraha, we shall have qualified to disobey laws. No one, however, need be alarmed at this, thinking that we would in that case have to wait for thousands of years. I have confidence in the power of satyagraha, that, once it has started moving in the right direction, it will take no time to spread throughout India. I am confident that we shall be able to commit civil disobedience on July 1. There is nothing in the circumstances to shake this confidence of mine. On the contrary, everything I see leads me to believe that India has come to understand the meaning of satyagraha. I do not want to persuade you that India is ready to