 senses. Similarly, a nation, which acted in the way this man did, could not but be characterized as one out of its senses, and India was an instance in point. A hundred and fifty years ago, she produced her own cloth and produced fabrics of cotton and silk woven into a texture the fineness of which no cloth produced anywhere else in the world could compete with. And today she depended on foreign countries for a large part of her cloth. Last year, for instance, India paid 60 crores of rupees for the cloth imported from abroad. This dependence was at once an act of folly and of sin. If having given up their old profession of producing their own cloth, they had busied themselves with something more profitable, Mr. Gandhi said, he would have no quarrel. But the fact was that they had not done so. The peasant population, i.e., two hundred and forty million of our whole population, spent six months in the year idly. He had lived among the agriculturists of Kaira and Champaran and he knew that they remained without work for half the part of the year. The condition of these people could not be improved unless they became self supporting which for them meant the earning of their living and manufacture of their cloth by hand spinning and hand weaving. And here he instanced the case of Vijapur, a village near Ahmedabad, where owing to the indefatigable efforts of Mrs. Gangabai Mazumdar, a widow of fine patriotism and selflessness, four hundred Mussulman women who had before nothing to do and who on account of the purdah could not go out to work, added to their income by spinning cotton in their own homes. It was Gangabai who brought employment to those unemployed and her example deserved to be copied everywhere. And, argued Mr. Gandhi, they should bethink themselves of England and Germany, how they tackled their food problem during the war, how they turned fallow land into arable and grew potatoes on it in six months time. Spinning and weaving their own cloth was surely a less difficult task than growing potatoes. That, however, was the economic aspect of the question. He had still to put before them the question from a religious standpoint. He had defined swadeshi as restricting oneself to the use and service of ones immediate surroundings to the exclusion of the more remote. He thought it was scarcely humane for people to prefer remote surroundings to those nearest themselves, and humanity, said the great Tulsidas, was the basis of all religion. He felt that the first and elementary duty of man was to use and serve his neighbours and that if he went farther for his needs and services, it argued on his part more regard for self than for others. Mr Gandhi said: We have wasted a considerable part of our precious spare time, and it behoves us now to bestir ourselves to utilize it and to dedicate our labour to the land of our birth.