 produced, with their labour, food for themselves and cloth with which they covered othersa doubly profitable work. When you do this, India will be all glory. You will not win it with Japanese or British saris. They will not help you to preserve your dharma. It is adharma 1, not dharma, which they help you to preserve. I most earnestly entreat my sisters to forsake adharma. Some women plead helplessness, saying that they are subject to men. Some men, on the contrary, argue that they are helpless because women would not give up their love of fashion, that three quarters of their expenditure is over womens dresses and so they ask me to persuade women first. I have met a large number of women. I have also had a hand in running a home. It has always seemed to me that I took second place to my wife. I discovered this when I invited Dudhabhai to come and live in theAshram. I could not keep him with me. As you work to prepare good dishes and would kick up a row if it was suggested that you could have the things from a hotel or eating housewould take it as an affrontso also you should work to make your own saris and likewise your childrens clothes. If all women cannot do this, have a weaver of your own, in the same way that you have a washerman and a barber. How stupid we are, how disloyal to India, to have sent out Rs. 60 crores to foreign countries! There was a time, not so very long agofor 100 years is nothing in the life of a nationwhen India produced enough cloth for itself and even exported some. The position today is that we manufacture one fourth of our requirements. What can be more shameful than this? In those days, all our women, rich or poor, had a spinning wheel in the home and worked on it, listening to its sweet music the while. From the yarn, saris as delicate as silk could be manufactured. Now, on the other hand, women spend their time in cooking all manner of fine dishes and, if any time is left, in gossiping. I have come here to tell you, in all humility, that we do not live to eat, but should be content with what little we get to keep the body going. At the present time, the people of India are growing ever more feeble. The children do not look handsome, as they should, but all rickety, so much so that but one push would send them to the ground. The reason lies in our pleasure seeking ways. We may enjoy pleasures and eat food which will not harm the body but make us brave rather. If you spare some time from what you spend in preparing meals and in gossiping, have the spinning wheel in the home and spin, you will