 Jainism, the secret of this path is explained with much greater insight than in any other faith. The friends who have assembled here do not need to be told what it is. If a man is born in India, there must be some reason behind the fact; that being so, we need to consider what is our especial duty. That duty is swadeshi and is included in dharma. Jainism teaches compassion towards living creatures and the duty of non violence; it even teaches the protection of violent animals against small creatures. This, however, is no justification for our neglecting the duty of compassion and non violence towards human beings. If our neighbours are in pain or misfortune, it is our duty to share their suffering and help them. All over the world, the religious life has lost importance to such an extent that irreligion is spreading in the name of religion and men everywhere are deceiving themselves. We claim to be men of dharma, whereas all our actions are tainted with adharma. We cannot claim to have followed dharma by earning money through adharma, and giving it in charity for promoting pious causes. Most of the people assembled here are traders by profession. We are told that trade cannot be carried on without some admixture of dishonesty. I shall be plain and tell you that, if that is so, you had better give up trade. Ones dharma lies in refusing to forsake truth even if that means starving, and, unless we live in this manner, dharma will not be the central purpose of our lives. There is a painful thing I am obliged to mention, and it is that our religious leaders, whose duty it is to enlighten people, have forgotten that duty. This is true, however much it may hurt us. Religious leaders have it in them to set an example to their followers by their conduct. Mere preaching will have no effect on those who assemble to listen to their discourses. Religious leaders, too, should follow the rule of swadeshi. They have plenty of time on hand. They should take to the spinning wheel and spin and thus set an example to their followers. More than in the repetition of Rama as they tell the beads, in the music of the spinning wheel will they hear the voice of the atman with a beauty all its own. Swadeshi is our primary obligation because natural to us. We have forsaken this natural obligation. Because of its neglect of swadeshi, the nation has been ruined. Three crores in India, that is, a tenth of the total population of the country, get only one meal a day, just plain bread and no more. Crores of rupees are annually lost to foreign countries. If this wealth of crores could remain in the country, we would be able to save our starving countrymen. Thus, our