 has been a pleasure to me to dissect the many business like petitions that have come from that land of sorrow, in the present instance I have been obliged to labour through violent language to what I consider to be a right conclusion. I do not happen to know the draughtsman of the petition. Mayadevi, who has sent a covering letter equally violently worded, gives me no information about the draughtsman. But I do wish as a practised draughtsman to warn writers of petitions, whether they be pleaders or otherwise, to think of the cause they may be espousing for the time being. I assure them that a bare statement of facts unembellished with adjectives is far more eloquent and effective than a narrative glowing with exuberant language. Petition writers must understand that they address busy men, not necessarily sympathetic, sometimes prejudiced, and almost invariably prone to sustain the decisions of their subordinates. In the case of the Punjab, they approach a Viceroy and a Lieutenant Governor who have preconceived ideas. Petitions have to be read and analysed by public workers and journalists who have none too much time at their disposal. I know to my cost how difficult it is for me to do full justice to the value of the papers that pour in upon me week to week from the Punjab. I make a present of my valuable experience to young patriots who wish to try the art of advocating public causes by writing petitions or otherwise. I had the privilege of serving under the late Mr. Gokhale and, for a time, under the G.O.M. of India. Both told me that if I wanted to be heard I must be brief, I must write to the point and adhere to facts, and never travel beyond the cause under notice, and I must be most sparing in my adjectives. And if some success has attended my effort, it is due to my acceptance of the golden advice given to me by the two illustrious deceased. With this preface and warning, I proceed to the analysis of the case of young Kesar Mal. I am anxious that the excellent case of young Kesar Mal might not be overlooked by reason of bad draughtsmanship of the petition. The wonder to me is that so many petitions have been written with a marked ability and amazing self restraint. But when a badly drawn [up] document comes their way, it is the business of public workers to sift the grain from the chaff and present the former to the public. Let it be remembered that this is one of the Hafizabad cases arising out of the tumult that took place at Hafizabad station during which Lieut. Tatam is alleged to have been the object of the mischievous attention of the crowd that had gathered at that station. Kesar Mal was sentenced to be hanged, the sentence being