 Governments laws have failed to understand its meaning. There are occasions when, for the sake of truth, laws may have to be disobeyed. Such was the occasion provided by the Rowlatt Bills. I advised the people then to think who would be entitled to disobey laws and when, but they did not understand, though women followed the idea better than men. If anyone asks whether women have any choice in the matter, I would take no notice of him. Women have to suffer more than men. Men and women are, of course, equal in authorityI myself believe in the ideaor rather, in the matter of suffering, women have a greater right than men. In this world, man has never suffered more than woman, nor displayed the gentleness she has done. At the moment, all that I want to say is that satyagraha against the Rowlatt Act has not ended. The number of those who have signed [the Satyagraha Pledge] is small, whether in Surat or elsewhere, but the tune has been taken up and this very fact has proved to be the source of a certain weakness. The tune has been taken up readily enough but the idea has not been examined with equal care. Anyone who has signed the Pledge may not violate it, no matter whether he has or has not understood it. When laws may be disobeyed and when satyagraha consists in obeying a lawthis also needs to be considered. At present, we understand neither. Satyagraha should be offered against the Government or the people as occasion may require. The idea that, while satyagraha is going on in the country, no one should indulge in violence is not to be ridiculed. It is being asked whether this can ever be ensured in the whole of the country. I testify that it can. Whether or no people have this faith in satyagraha, it is a sacred principle in itself that no injury should be done to person or property. India has understood this principle. If it has not been understood in a few obscure or isolated spots, well, let us start again, the wiser for the lesson. These days we have been explaining to the people that, till we can be confident that no violence will be done to anyone, it will be impossible to start satyagraha. I shall not take you into these deep waters. Only let no one think that satyagraha is abandoned. I say this deliberately. Satyagraha has not ended, it can end only when the Government repeals the Rowlatt Act. I want to talk to you about another matter besides this. It is as important as satyagraha. It grows out of satyagraha, though not out of the Rowlatt Acts. When satyagraha is going on, men and women come to think about truth. If we have followed truth even in a small measure, we shall want to overcome the imperfections in us and in our