 autonomy as ample and vast and inexhaustible as the sea and it was such fiscal autonomy that they wanted. And, continued Mr. Gandhi, even though England gave them fiscal autonomy, whom should they have to blame if they did not follow the eternal principles of swadeshi2? Without swadeshi, they would fall into the meshes of Japan after being free from those of England, which would be tantamount to going from the frying pan into fire. It would be impossible for them to set at naught the treaty obligations of England with Japan. Their Government would warn them against imposing any duties on Japanese imports, on the ground that that would pave the way for another war. Such a catastrophe might occur in the course of the next five years. How, asked Mr. Gandhi, were they to save themselves from that catastrophe? Only by grasping and following the principles of pure economics. If there was a country on earth that did not produce its own food and clothing it deserved to be deserted, or no hopes of swaraj might be entertained with regard to it. If swaraj could exist in such a country, it was bound to be nothing but what might be termed devilish swaraj. The people of that country must either deceive and exploit other countries by their act and their diplomacy and obtain their food and clothing, or they must do so by force. England was the only exception to the rule that every country that was civilized produced its own food and clothing. She produced her own food stuffs, but she imported them also; she produced her cloth, but she imported it also. And for this England had to maintain a great navy. England was proud of her navy but that pride was, in the opinion of Mr. Gandhi, transient. She could only be proud in that she could maintain such a navy, but the position she enjoyed thereby was purchased at the cost of heavy taxation on her people and of keeping a close watch on international highways. If, said Mr. Gandhi, they wanted to purify British connection, purging it of all unnatural interest, they should demolish her economic theories. The speaker was never enamoured of the British navy and had never thought of such a navy being necessary for India. For England and Scotland, he observed, were small islands. They abounded in vast country and it was therefore easy for them to maintain a navy. India, on the contrary, was a vast country and not an island, but a peninsula. It had no big coalfields, it was open to the invasion of the Afghan and the Tartar, of the Chinese and the Tibetan. India, therefore, even if she could possess a navy could not rely solely upon it, she would have to maintain an army in addition and the expense of maintaining both would empty her resources.